# Vue.js

## About
Vue is a progressive framework for front end development.  The core library is focused on the view layer only and is easy to integrate with other libraries or existing projects.

Learn more at: https://vuejs.org/

## Setup
Vue.js can be included in your index.html file by using the following source tag:
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vue/dist/vue.js"></script>

There is also a vue-cli that you can use by running the following commands in your terminal:

``npm install -g @vue/cli -init`` This installs the cli globally and gives you access to the vue command in your terminal.
``vue init webpack <project_name>`` This creates all the needed files to begin working on a project in Vue, there are many options for you to work with included here.
``cd <project_name>`` Moves you into your project folder.
``npm run dev`` This starts the server.

## File Structure

### Index.html
The starting point of your application, just like with angularjs the div with the id of 'app' is the placeholder for all of the output that is generated by Vue.js.

### Main.js
The Vue application is initialized here:
- `import Vue from 'vue'`: Identifies Vue as the main class of the framework
- `import App from './App'`: Names App as the root component of the application.
 `new Vue({
  el: '#app',
  template: '<App/>',
  components: { App }
  })`
  - `el`: Assigning the string #app to the el property tells Vue that the output of the Vue application should be rendered in the `<div id='app'></div>` element in index.html.
  - `template`: The html code which is used to generate the output of the application.
  - `components`: Needed components in the template.

  The template only contains one element: `<App/>`. Since this is the element that is assigned to the App component it also needs to be listed as an object in the component property.

### App.vue
Each .vue file contains the same 3 components:

- Template (html code), what you actually see on the DOM
- Script (JS code), all of the logic and needed scripts
- Style (css code)

The script section of the .vue file is responsible for exporting the default object (the files output), and importing all needed files.  Additionally, all functions are assigned to the 'methods' property of the default export.

## Standard Directives

### v-for
Similar to ngRepeat, will iterate through an array using the `item in items` structure.

### v-model
The v-model directive creates a two-way binding on an input element or a component.

### v-if, v-else, v-else-if
Vue.js allows for conditional logic in the hmtl code. You are able to create real conditional rendering, event listeners and child components inside the conditional block are destroyed and re-created during toggles.

### v-on
Vue uses the `v-on` directive to listen to DOM events and run some JavaScript when they are triggered.  `v-on` can also accept the name of a method that you would like to call.

## Additional Resources

- [Vue.js GitHub](https://github.com/vuejs/vue)
- [Vue.js Newsletter](http://vue-newsletter.com/) - Weekly dose of handpicked Vue.js news
- [Vue.js Tips](http://vuetips.com) - Tips to become a better Vue.js developer
- [Official Forum](http://forum.vuejs.org/)
